So your new friends, also to answer
the question on how to deal with this,
are a couple of websites.
MDN, that it's on developer.mozilla.org,
if you're a web developer,
okay, you probably know MDN.
Just a quick update on this,
it says Mozilla,
because originally it was the official
documentation for Firefox and
other Mozilla products, but
today that's not the case anymore.
Even if it's inside Mozilla,
it's actually an a nonprofit
organization that is trying to, let's say,
fill the gap in the lack of
documentation for the web.
So it's trying to be the official
documentation for the web, and
they hire people that are typing and
creating all the recommendation,
not just for Firefox,
it's for every platform.
Okay, so it's like the official
recommendation for the web.
caniuse.com, in Can I Use you will
typically have a good understanding
of which property is available on each
browser from which version, okay?
We will see later some examples of that.
Web.dev, a lot of capability APIs.
You have the spec, but reading the spec
from the W3C as a web developer,
it's kind of difficult
sometimes because the spec is
typically targeting browser vendors.
So it explains how to implement the API,
not just how to use it.
So web.dev includes a lot of
examples on capabilities,
with code examples,
with explanations, real world.
It's from the Google Chrome team, but
the text that they're writing
is not really Google Chrome.
And I know that because I published that
book that I mentioned before there, and
there is no restriction,
everyone is publishing there.
I'm not from Google and I publish there.
And what you publish there
shouldn't be just Chrome
documentation, so it's just for the web.
For specifics on Safari for
iOS, Mac OS, and iPad OS,
so we don't have
an official documentation.
The closest thing that we
have is the webkits blog.
I would argue today that they're doing
a pretty good job today from 2023,
in creating at least,
let's say, good documentation.
They're doing a good effort.
In the past 10 years or
15 years, it wasn't the case.
In fact, my website or my blog for the dev
sometimes was the only resource to find
what's new on Safari for web developers,
because I was doing a lot of tests,
because they didn't document new APIs and
things like that.
Fortunately, they're doing that, so
I don't need to do that job anymore for
free, by the way.
So the last one is chromestatus.com.
Chromestatus.com is a place
where you will know which
APIs are shipped with Chrome
on each version, okay?
So you will know if Bluetooth API
is available from which version,
if it's stable,
know which is in trial, okay?
Let me show you that one.
Not everyone has experienced
working with that.
So you can see at the time of
creating this video, this workshop,
we are in stable in Chrome 113.
And here you have things that were
deprecated, new APIs that were
enabled by default, not just APIs,
also small features on CSS new.
What things were added in developer trial,
that's behind the flag, or origin trial.
And here you can see the next version
that is currently in beta, or
the other one that is currently canary,
the alpha.
And you can go back and check here.
And also if you have a question on one
particular API, you go to All Features,
and you can filter.
For example, you can say,
okay, let's say Bluetooth.
And here you have Bluetooth sorts of API.
You can open the Web Bluetooth API.
And you will see here, let me
increase the font size a little bit,
some information about that.
For example, in Chrome 56 this was on
Android, and Chrome OS, and Mac OS.
And in Chrome 70,
it was added to Windows 10.
And you can see that today it's enabled
by default with some links samples for
every API for
everything that they are shipping.
So when you have a question, when you
have a problem, here you will typically
find a lot of information, technical
information about that capability.
And of course, you and your friends
in this video, okay, this course,
this workshop,
cuz we will cover a lot of API's.
We also have Baseline.
So what's Baseline?
Well, actually,
it's a multi-vendor new effort.
It's originally from Google,
but it's multi-vendor, so
it's actually also adding Mozilla and
Apple to define a list of stable
capabilities for all browsers.
So we weren't being seen as
the green list of ability.
So if an ability is green,
it's because it's safe to use today,
because it's available on every
browser on every platform.
Of course, that's never 100%, but
it's 99%, which is typically good enough.
So it's kind of a stable
version of the web.
And we have one list per year,
starting with 2023.
And the idea is that every
year we'll have a new one,
such as Baseline 2024, Baseline 2025.
At the end of every year,
we will have the list defined by
all the browsers for the next year.
So by the end of 2024,
we will receive the list of Baseline 2025.
And today, you're gonna start finding
baseline, for example on MDM,
that website that we mentioned before,
where you see that, for
example, in this case,
the grid CSS capability is Baseline.
So it's widely supported
on all the browsers.
Also, web.dev is listing
the Baseline features in many of
its articles talking
about many capabilities.